For two weeks now, Israel and Gaza
have been at war.
Israel and Hamas have been at war.
And the region is confronting
all the horrors of what
that actually means.
I want to bring in now
Amy Galliano,
a volunteer medic with United Hatzalah.
Now, Naomi,
on the afternoon of the Hamas attack,
and I just want everyone to know
when they're looking at you
now you're at work,
you're out saving your lives.
That's what you do.
Yeah, I know you are.
So I really appreciate you
just taking a few minutes to talk to us
because I know that
you want the world to know
and to be very aware of what happened.
And you think it's important that day.
On the afternoon of the Hamas attack,
you were
you were on call
looking for anyone who survived.
You were you were getting those calls.
You were going to the
kibbutzim along that border.
How do you even
cope with what you saw
before we even talk about what you saw?
How do you cope with it now?
Naomi?
So right now,
thanks to United SLA
and other organizations in Israel,
I have a full psychological treatment
and the other.
Day special treatment is called EMDR.
It's a system
that works on the brain
that helps you cope with traumatic events
before you develop
post-traumatic symptoms.
So I have that.
Sort. Of like.
You're getting.
Yes.
Now, me, I know that you witnessed
horrific things
with your own eyes
as you were trying to save lives.
I know that, again,
you have chosen to talk about this
because you don't want the world
to be able to turn away and forget
what happened, what you saw
with your own eyes.
What do you want people to know
about what you saw?
The first thing that I
want them to know that probably.
Hamas is.
ISIS,
the act
and the horrific things that we suffer
are beyond not worse
than anything compared to
her or any movie or any horror movie
that you could ever, ever imagine
being or
anywhere.
Begin with the babies that we saw dead.
Bleeding, beheaded
to the women that we saw
in the same situation, the same.
Poses, the blood to the elderly.
Yeah.
Let me your
take your pick.
Everything
Naomi, I have,
I think along with many others,
I felt frustration that
beheading became a part of this,
that that
the horrific things
that everyone knows
occurred, that why that would be
something that needed to be proven
when so many horrific other things also
happened.
But I just want to be
clear that you did see those acts.
You did see
people who had been beheaded.
Fortunately, I have seen that.
I've seen people that.
Their limbs have been taken. Out.
I've seen
mothers dead on top of their babies.
That were also dead.
I've seen
burned bodies of young.
Girls, young men,
people of.
All ages.
Babies burn, baby.
Burn them.
They're like,
I can't even start to describe the smell.
But at the beginning,
you don't even realize
what you're smelling.
It smells like barbecue, you know?
Doesn't make any sense.
And when you take a look
a little bit closer to both sides,
you realize that.
It is.
Bird meat. And its.
People.
Yeah, it's people.
Yeah.
And
it's something that
I don't think I
will ever be able to raise from my head
or from my mind.
Or my dream.
Naomi,
Was there anyone that
was in a position
that you were able to help them
when you got there?
Yes, it was.
It was around.
It took us so, so much time
till we found people
that were actually alive.
And when we did, we were able to help.
Yeah, thank God.
But compared to the dead people and.
The amount. Of dead, it wasn't.
It wasn't a lot.
But yes, we were able
were able to save a few families
from Bury
that we loaded
the ambulance with four
or five injured
at the same time
because there was no time
we were under fire
and we have to load the ambulance
with as much.
Injured as we can.
And they were severely,
severely injured in
their lungs because they.
They breathed
smoke for
at least three or 4 hours
because the terrorists, Hamas,
burned their houses.
Once they realized
they cannot go into the safe room.
So they just burned the whole place down.
And the family.
That stayed inside, some of them.
Were alive
and we were able to help them and
and save them and some of them not.
My God,
the fact that some of them were alive
and you were able were able to save them.
I mean, what a miracle.
What a miracle that is.
I mean, Naomi,
who obviously
this is how you reacted in a moment
that no one can comprehend
being in, you reacted by going in.
You talk about being under fire
as you're trying to save people.
Did you realize that you could have died?
Did you realize that
this was all still happening
while you were there or did
you even process it.
At that time?
You don't stop to process it.
You just think I'm here.
I'll do my best to stay alive
because I have to save more life.
I have to get back to my family.
So even you under fire, you try the best
as you can to stay alive.
If it's lying on the floor,
if it's try to hide behind cars,
if it's staying really, really quiet.
Even though with you an ambulance,
even though you're
driving through the night,
but you don't turn the light on,
you drive in complete, complete darkness
because, you know,
if you stay alive,
then you could save more lives.
And that's what you do.
Hour after hour.
Well, that's what you do.
I think so many of us I listen to you and
it's it's truly unbelievable.
It's an inspiration
that it's hard to even comprehend.
And you're still doing it, Naomi.
You're still you're still going out.
You're still able to work now.
Yeah.
Well, I took few days off this past week.
Now I'm back here.
I'm in Ashkelon right now.
I have my crew with me and my ambulance
on the other side over here.
I have the ambulance behind me right now.
I can be inside the ambulance.
I can't be inside the ambulance.
We have to be outside.
We have safe places here.
Because if there's any alarm
on, we have to go into the safe place.
And only when it stops, we could go out
and start safe with the rescue people and
and hoping that no one got hurt.
That's our best hope.
Well,
Naomi, I want to thank you very much.
Before you go,
I just want to ask you
a very simple question,
which is now that you've taken the time
to share these horrors
and to relive them
because you want people to hear that,
is there anything else
you want to tell anyone
watching about
what's happening in Israel,
about how you feel?
Is there anything else
you just want the world to hear?
Thank you so much for doing this.
I just want the world to know that
these things should never happen again.
You should know that Hamas is ISIS.
The acts.
That we saw
are against any humanity that possibly.
Be existing in this world.
And go home to.
Your families
and hug your kids and love them and
be with them.
Because from what I saw, maybe.
You could never know if.
It's the last day or the.
Last moment and you're
just tell your family
that you love them every day.
And if you're in a situation,
try to do your best
to help others,
because sometimes
even the smallest help
could change the world for someone else.
Naomi, thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you so much for taking the time.
Nima Galliano,
as you can see in Ashkelon, Israel, out
empty out right now, going to save lives
even after what she has endured and
taken the time and agony
to share it with all of us.